I used to wake up shivering all the time when I was young because we had to conserve our wood to make sure it would last us through the harsh Seagate winter. It wasn't too bad when we went to bed because we always put some wood in the stove at night. Without that wood, it would have been hard to go to sleep, and by morning, the chill was so bad I could hardly wait to get up and do my chores just to keep from freezing.

The softness and warmth of my bed at Arrenkyle Manor reminded me of the old threadbare sheets, the stiff cots, and the distant pain of a childhood lost in the happy sad courtyard of the Seagate girls' orphanage.

I was born at the age of seven from that stoic, cold womb into a life of warm love which for many years felt like a dream that would disappear when I opened my eyes, just as it always used to.

As I drifted awake, I tried to remember Andrea as I last saw her on the day my sweet papa gave me new life. I knew that as soon as I opened my eyes, the image of my old friend would fade as quickly as the morning mist outside, so I kept my eyes tightly closed and snuggled deeper into my pillow until I could almost hear the sound of our rocks as they bounced along the stone walkway where we used to play Alley Scratch.

Andrea and I saw him at the same time. It was late one summer day, after school but before the evening meal, and everyone was trying to stay cool in the shade of the few trees in the small yard of the orphanage. Some of the younger girls were picking flowers with Miss Lothrop, and others were playing Alley Scratch or jumping rope. Andrea and I were sitting back to back, resting against each other by the honeysuckle hedge that ran along the side of the yard. We were talking about how nice it would be to ride on a sailing ship.

He came out the back door talking with Mother Shanker.

He seemed so tall and elegant in his long, black robe. Beside him stood the most beautiful woman I had ever seen. She was wearing dark green pants that flowed like a gown, a matching vest, and a blouse with lacy cuffs, one of which brushed against the hilt of a short sword.

The whole yard shared the same excited hush that always overtook the girls whenever someone came to look us over, but I was tired of the whole game. Most of the time they only came because the girls' orphanage was on the way to the boys' home down the street. Most people did not want to pay a thousand silver pieces for a girl when they could buy a boy to help in their craft or their field for the same price. I had given up a long time ago on the whole affair and figured that when I finally reached thirteen and could get out on my own I would go straight to the wharf and make my life out on the sea.

"Did you see her hair?" Andrea whispered to me over her shoulder.

The lady had braided a bright, silky blue cloth in with her dark brown hair, which flowed down almost to her waist. I wondered how something like that would look in my own hair, which was long and black, or in Andrea's sandy blond curls.

"It's nice, I guess."

"Just nice? Those are diamonds!"

Then I noticed that the clasp holding her hair above the braid looked like it was made with gold and big diamonds. I wasn't sure because I had never seen real gold or diamonds before.

"So they're diamonds. I'll have plenty of diamonds someday. I'll even have my own ship with a crew and you can be my first mate and we'll travel all over and buy all sorts of beautiful things."

"What about the sea pirates?"

"They don't scare me. I'll hire a hundred fighters and a hundred wizards to protect us. If they try to get close, I'll burn their ship and cut off their heads."

"Nyssa, you're bad."

"No, I'm not. I'm practical."

Around the yard the other girls were still playing, but I could tell they were all nervously hoping for a home away from the chores and simple food of the orphanage. I was used to it. I didn't care.

"There they go," said Andrea.

I looked over in time to see Mother Shanker following them back inside.

"They probably saw Donna's ugly face and decided to buy a son instead," Andrea said quietly.

"How could they tell the difference?"

I don't know why Donna and I never got along. Maybe I didn't like they way she always talked about finding a family with a dog and a little brother, which I found pathetically weak and self deluding. Maybe it was because she was older and always tried to tell me I was wrong in math, which I wasn't. Perhaps we just needed to make friends and enemies to build a semblance of a real world into the tiny courtyard in which we were trapped every day.

We locked our arms and stood up together, back to back, and then went over to where Lisa and Donna were finishing a game of Alley Scratch. Donna was swinging her arm a few times before tossing her rock ahead, aiming between the sticks that were laid out as markers. The rock skipped once, tumbled between the sticks, and then rolled out.

"Did you see those two?" Andrea said to Lisa.

"That woman looked odd."

"No, she didn't," I answered quickly. "How could you say that? She was beautiful."

"I don't know," Lisa said, shrugging her shoulders. "Mysterious. Different."

"Maybe," I added, "but that doesn't make her odd."

"Don't you know anything? It's because she's an elf," said Donna in the tone of voice she liked to use when she was pointing out something that made her feel superior.

"You missed," I reminded her.

"Shut up, dragon breath," she said as she hopped the marks, picked up her rock, and hopped back on the other foot.

"Dragon breath?" I asked her, standing akimbo on the home line.

"Nyssa," Andrea called out cautiously to me.

"I wonder why they came and looked at us," wondered Lisa out loud, trying to diffuse the tiresome bickering that Donna and I always managed to get around to.

"Get out of my way, Nyssa."

She looked quite silly standing there on one foot, waiting to round off on the home line, her round freckled face frowning under her short, reddish hair.

"Dragon breath?" I asked again. "Is that the best you can do? You called me dragon breath yesterday, I think. I at least try to be original. Like yesterday, when I called you a gutter slime licker. I wouldn't even think of using it again. I would come up with something like, say, basilisk head, or troll face, or maybe smelly shadow tramp."

"Nyssa," Andrea pleaded again.

"How about just getting out of my way?"

"How about taking it back?"

"Fine. I take it back."

"Good."

I smiled and stepped out of her way. "Come on, Andi, let's scratch our own field."

I was willing to let it drop there, having won my small battle, when I felt her toss rock hit me in the back.

I turned around.

"Oops," she said, holding her hand up to her mouth in a caricature of mock penitence.

I stopped walking, closed my eyes, and listened to a yellow bird sing his happy song. Then I turned and walked back to Donna. Somehow we had always managed to get along without our encounters going beyond a few simple, angry words. Besides, she had three years and a few inches on me. That had always helped me to keep things as civil as possible, but, at that moment, I felt the strong leftover tension of having someone interrupt our afternoon. Even though I liked to pretend that I didn't care about someone coming to adopt one of us, I couldn't help but let that possibility remind me that it most likely would never happen, and I would be stuck here with stupid, arrogant Donna for another three years until she was of age.

"Sowwy, Nyssa," she said in a horrid baby voice.

I looked up into her gloating face that ached to be slapped. So I slapped it. That's all I meant to do, but after I had done it, the pile of all her little insults and condescensions finally collapsed, rekindling my anger, and I punched her in the stomach. We fell onto the grass and wrestled, biting and kicking, punching and hitting.

I was surprised that I seemed to be gaining an upper hand, and then all too soon, Miss Lothrop was pulling me off of her.

"What's this about?" she demanded. By now, all the other girls had gathered around us.

"She threw her toss rock at me and pretended it was a mistake!"

"Nyssa called me a shadow tramp," Donna managed to say through her blubbering tears. I couldn't figure out why she was crying. I couldn't have hurt her that bad. Maybe the whole scene was just too emotional for her. It was kind of pathetic. Since she seemed the more upset, Miss Lothrop must have figured it was all my fault.

"Nyssa," she said, shaking me by the arm. "How could you embarrass us all like this when we have guests?"

That made my earlier indifference about them return and I answered, "I don't care. No one ever buys us anyway."

For some reason, that made Donna's blubbery red face cry even harder.

I was getting tired of the whole affair and I wanted to go away with Andrea and sulk for a while.

"I'm sorry, Miss Lothrop. I'm sorry, Donna."

"Shut up, dragon breath."

I looked at Andrea, shrugged, and rolled my eyes.

"Come on, Andi. I'm tired of this."

When I turned to leave, I felt Miss Lothrop's wiry fingers grab me roughly by the arm as she said, "I don't think so, little miss!" She also had Donna by the arm and she led the two of us to the back door and up the shallow brick steps into the house.

"The both of you are going to bed this instant and there will be no supper for either of you!"

"That's one good thing," I answered bitterly. "I should have started hitting her long ago. Goodness knows she deserved it." Those last words came out more like a shrill scream than the sarcastic defiance that I had intended.

Miss Lothrop stopped in the hall and knelt in front of me, holding me firmly by the shoulders as she scolded, "Nyssa! That's enough. I don't want to hear another word from you the rest of the evening."

I started to say something but she cut me off.

"Don't make me get a switch!"

I tried to pull away from her but she held onto me. Finally, I screamed, "Let go of me. I'll walk on my own." I pulled myself almost free but then I slipped and she dug her sharp fingernails into my arm as my feet went out from under me.

"I said not another word, Nyssa, and I meant it!"

She gave me a sharp slap to my side.

I gritted my teeth and managed to hold my tongue while I stood up. Then she stood and walked us quickly to the sleeping room through the dark back hallway with the squeaky hollow floor and the stale smell of oil lamps.

Once inside the room I walked heavily, arms crossed and teeth clenched, to my cot and sat down, facing away from Miss Lothrop and Donna. I waited, sitting tightly until I heard the door close as Miss Lothrop left.

I nurtured my anger without even knowing why. I encouraged it to fester its way into the core of my thoughts until it nestled deep inside my body and became a void that made me feel hollow, like a clay statue. I wasn't mad at anyone or anything in particular. Not Donna, really, or Miss Lothrop. I'm not even sure it was anger I was feeling. It was the familiar sensation that always came from pushing aside the hurt and loneliness and fear until I was blank inside.

Then, unexpectedly, I heard the door open again.

Mother Shanker's heavy footsteps came to the foot of my bed and I heard her always mellow voice behind me.

"Come with me, Nyssa."

I stood with arms folded and followed her. I figured I was in for some floor scrubbing or some other punishment, so I resigned myself to it. If I had to work in the kitchen, I could at least steal a few bites of a potato or something.

She led me to her office and when I entered she closed the door behind me, leaving me in the room with the man in black and the beautiful green-clad woman.

I kept my arms crossed, leaned against the door, and looked at them. Then I looked down and tried to make myself even more empty. It didn't work. I felt a tingle of hope trying to break in.

"Your name is Nyssa?" the man said with a kind, full voice.

"Yes, sir," I said to the floor.

"Did Miss Shanker tell you why we wanted to talk with you?"

"No."

"My wife and I want to have a family, but we cannot have our own children. My wife is an elf. Do you know what that is?"

"I'm not stupid," I answered quietly, examining my feet.

"No, of course not. I'm sorry."

I waited, afraid to look at him. It was quiet for a long time and I felt the pressure of their eyes on me. Still he didn't say anything, so I asked, "Can I go now?"

Instead of answering, he came over, knelt in front of me, put his index finger gently under my chin, and lifted my head up. I bit down hard on my back teeth when our eyes met.

"Yes. You may go if you wish, or you may come to our home and live with us and our new son, Jheffery."

I was numb. The realization that he was serious and that I was only a nod away from winning the dream that I had never allowed myself to really want took away my tongue. I felt trapped. I felt free. Already, at that moment, I could feel what it would be like to have the orphanage be nothing but a memory. I felt myself move across that line, just like hopping across the last scratch, ending the game. I heard the sound of my breathing as I took deeper and deeper breaths.

I closed my eyes.

And then, eleven years later, I opened them again to see my beautiful and expensive room, filled with so many fine trappings, just as my hollow soul had been filled with the love of my tender father, the caring wisdom of my mother, and the happiness of all the other children that came after me.

I rolled over onto the cool sheets and stared at the ceiling. I missed Papa terribly and wished he didn't have to be away so much. I missed the times we spent together when I was younger. With eleven children, I hardly ever had time alone with him.

I threw the covers aside and walked sleepily into my bathroom, where I took a quick, warm shower. I dried off and then stepped around to my closet, from which I selected warm socks, a full-length wool skirt, and a light sweater. I twisted my hair up and stuck it with a wooden comb and then got dressed and went down the back stairs to the kitchen.

The shutters were still closed, letting only a few stray shafts of light through. Anna was sitting at the long wooden prep table, looking very tired. I went over and put my hand on her shoulder. "Couldn't sleep again?"

She was carrying Papa's twelfth child, which was only a couple of weeks away from being born, and hadn't slept well for the past few nights. I liked Anna and I knew I would miss her after she had the baby, but that's the way it had to be. If she stayed around to see the child, even for a few days, it would be even harder for her. So, like all the young women before her who had brought us the other children, she would be sent home the day after she bore the next Arrenkyle.

She shook her head and pushed a lock of her strawberry blond hair behind her ear.

"Let me get you some cider," I said.

"Thanks, Nyssa, but I don't want any right now. He's shifted again. I think I can get some sleep," she said, patting her abdomen. "Can you give me a hand up?"

She turned in her seat and set her feet apart in front of her and when I came over, she let me take her hands in mine. She rested that way with her eyes closed and her head forward for a moment. Then she stood up with my help. She thanked me with a sweet smile that had to work its way through her exhaustion, pushed her hair behind her ear again, and then stepped slowly toward the back stairs.

When I turned and took the cork from the cider jug, I thought about how she was only three years older than I was. I wanted to have my own children someday. I could hardly imagine myself otherwise, but I was no closer to having my own family than I had been at seven, dreaming about riding the seas. Besides, I had my father's children to take care of. Our nanny, Rebecca, did most of the hard work, especially with the younger ones. Mother was always available and loving, but I was their teacher, their friend. They came to me when they were sad or upset. If they had done something wrong, they always came to me because they all knew that my punishments were the least severe.

I love them all more than I can say, but they're different from me. Even though they all have different mothers — except for the twins, of course — Papa is their real father. It didn't bother Jheffery that much, because he was only five when he was adopted. He never understood when I tried to talk with him about it. Mother didn't like for me to bring it up, so I kept it inside, caring for his children almost as if they were my own.

It would have been be easier if he had not been away so much. I felt less foreign when he was with us. Jheffery was always closer to Mother and hardly noticed if Papa was here or not. But I felt it. He had been away so much, but what could I do? They needed me. He needed me. The world needed him.

I poured myself half a glass of cider and took it with me out the back door and along the narrow brick walkway through the misty, glowing morning to the garden. Edgar kept the grounds so nice. It seemed almost garish, considering the trouble on the Continent. So many people were suffering because of the crops dying from drought in the north or the floods in the south. After almost fifteen years, Pakana still had not fully adapted to the changes in the weather that were caused when the High Druid was killed.

I stepped into the gazebo and looked over our beautiful estate as I leaned against a thick wooden post and smelled the sweet scent of the Alayas blooms carried by the wind. Down the hill was the large pond with a pier and two small rowboats at one end and three willow trees at the other, casting their long shadows across the water. Beyond that were two rows of large elm trees with wide, spreading branches that formed a natural canopy leading back to the house.

It was so beautiful, so grand, and yet still I felt an emptiness inside, which made me feel terribly guilty. I took a deep breath and let it out as a sigh while I allowed my familiar melancholy to settle into my spirit, making me feel far away and cloudy.

Why did he have to be away so much? Too much work. His work is important, and so is my papa. I had to get used to sharing him with the other children and his work, which often took him into obsession. In the past months, he had become like a stranger to me, polite but distant, but if he could help the people, then I knew he must.

I sighed again and then jumped as I felt the small sting of a pebble hitting my rear.

I quickly turned and saw the little eyes of Kasimir and Drake peeking over the opposite edge of the gazebo. Kasimir's face, topped with the straight bangs of his sandy blond hair over a thin, lightly freckled nose, held an expression of barely repressed laughter. Beside him, Drake's brown curly hair punctuated the look of shocked surprise between his baby round cheeks. They ducked back down and ran away.

I took a small stone of amber from my belt and spoke the words to summon a Statue spell, and within seconds they were both frozen in their tracks.

I walked across the moist grass and stood in front of them for a moment to let them think about their situation. Normally, I wouldn't use something against them that was designed as an offensive attack for battle, but it was like a reflex. Papa had trained me well.

When I canceled the spell, Kasimir started to run away again but decided against it. Drake simply fell to the ground and began crying. It is a horrible and frightening thing to be held so firmly that you can't even blink.

I picked him up and held him, patting his back.

"Shhh, now. It's over. You're okay."

I reached out my free hand to Kasimir and he surrendered his slingshot.

We went back to the house and into the kitchen through the back door. Sera and the other servants were there getting ready to make breakfast. I put down Drake and told them, "Upstairs, both of you, and stay in your rooms until breakfast time."

"What's this?" came Mother's voice from the dining room doors. Jheffery was with her. They were ready to do some morning drills and exercises.

"Bring them here, Nyssa."

I turned to them and saw their pitiful expressions of disappointment. They knew that they had come very close to getting away with their prank. I followed them into the dining room, where Mother took over the situation.

She motioned for the two boys to approach her.

"Kasimir, why did Nyssa take away your slingshot?" she asked in a firm voice that echoed against the high ceiling.

"I hit her with a pebble," he answered, with well-practiced remorse.

"On purpose?"

"Well, I didn't really mean to hit her. I wanted to scare her a little bit."

"Kasimir, your slingshot is a weapon. It must never be used against another person as a joke. That's the kind of joke that could get you killed some day. It's like my sword. I always wear it, but I remove it from its sheath only when it needs to be used."

Then she quickly drew her short sword, pulled Kasimir around, and smacked him sharply on the behind with its flat side.

She put her sword back and said, "Both of you upstairs, as Nyssa said. Then after breakfast, Kasimir, I want you to make sure you have no more such accidents. You will practice hitting a brick from twenty paces. You will continue until you have hit the same brick one hundred times. Drake, you will fetch his shots for him. Understood?"

"Yes, Mother," they both answered quietly.

"Avery will make sure you count correctly. He's pretty good with a slingshot, so maybe he will give you some help."

She leaned forward and hugged them both warmly and then sent them on upstairs.

"Nyssa," Mother said, turning to me, "I think you should pay your father a visit at the academy and remind him that he hasn't been home for almost three weeks."

"Oh, yes. I'd like that."

"I know that you miss him, dear, as do I. His work is very important to all L'thenia, but surely he can spend a few days home with us once in a while."

"I hope so."

She turned to Jheffery and asked crisply, "Are you ready?"

"You bet," he answered. Then to me Jheffery said, "Dierdre was looking for you a moment ago."

As they were on their way out through the kitchen, Avery, the next oldest after Jheffery and the first child born by a surrogate mother, came in through the main dining room doors.

"Hey, Avery," Jheffery called to him from the other doorway. "Guess what you'll be doing all afternoon."

"What do you mean?"

They all left to work out together, leaving me alone in the empty room. I sat down at the window seat and watched them walking away to the west field until they were out of view. They always seemed to have so much fun.

I drew my feet up into the chair and rested my head back, free for the moment from Kasimir and his endless games, only to be interrupted by the sound of little Dierdre shuffling quietly into the room, crying again.
