

Dierdre stood in the doorway in her nightie and bare feet, tears on her cheeks, her fine hair in sloppy disarray around her face. She ran over to me, slapping her little feet against the hardwood floor, and started to climb into my lap. I picked her up and set her on her feet in front of me.

"Compose yourself," I said, holding my hands on her shoulders. "Take your time."

Dierdre was a problem for us. After five boys, the whole house was pleased to finally have a little girl to take care of, and we all tended to indulge her more than we did the boys. We were all guilty of letting her be softer and less independent, except Mother, of course, who treated her with the same loving firm hand that she had used for thousands of years rearing human children.

All the other children were bold and independent in their own way, including Darcy, Dierdre's twin brother, but it was difficult to get Dierdre to assert herself in even simple ways. Darcy ended up fighting his sister's battles most of the time. He was protective and loyal to a fault when it came to Dierdre, and she seemed forever in his shadow, never far away.

Mother always thought that this, and the pampering she received, was what made Dierdre into such a mousy, inhibited little girl. That's part of it, I'm sure, but I noticed  something else. Papa was polite with her, but cold, almost bitter at times, and in a way I don't think the others would have noticed. They don't know Papa the way I do.

I remember one time last year, when she and Darcy were just over four years old. Papa was telling us a story in the family lounge. Dierdre was getting sleepy and kept trying to climb onto his lap. If it had been any of the other young children, he probably would have picked him up and kept talking, but he kept putting her down and gently pushing her away. He finally picked her up, gave her to me, and then finished his story while Dierdre listened from my lap.

She was never good enough for him. He held us all to very high standards, but for poor Dierdre, he gave far more suggestions for improvement than praise.

It made me feel horrible because I felt that it had something to do with me. Of course Papa wasn't able to know me when I was her age. Did he feel guilty giving her the attention he wasn't able to give me? Did he feel that showing affection to his second daughter would betray his first? He wasn't like that with the other children.

I told Mother once that I thought he was awfully harsh with Dierdre, but she thought that it would do her good since everyone else babied her so. I couldn't bring myself to ask him about it directly.

When she calmed down I picked her up, held her in my lap, and told her, "Now we can talk. I like when you can come to me and discuss a problem calmly and plainly. So, what's troubling my kid sister?"

"I don't want you to go away."

"What do you mean? I'm not going away."

"Mommy said you were going to go see Father. I don't want you to go 'cause you won't come back either."

"Oh, Dierdre. We're both coming back. In fact, the reason I'm going to visit him is to tell him he needs to come home to see us all."

"You said you would be away for a long time."

"No. Not this time. Today I'm just going to visit Father and I will come right back. Then tomorrow I'm going to visit Adrian so she can help me with my magic, but that's only for four or five days. That's not a long time."

"I just don't want you to go," she said as she nuzzled her head on my shoulder.

I stood and carried her out of the dining room and across to the wide, curved stairway in the spacious foyer at the front of the house, saying, "Father is busy with his work and needs to be away so he can help other people. When I visit Adrian, that will be for something different and I won't be away long at all."

"When is Father coming back?"

"Well, I hope he will come back today, for a while at least. Now, hurry up and get dressed. Don't be late."

She raised her arm high to reach the hand rail and started slowly up the stairs.

I picked her up again, this time holding her around her waist, and carried her the rest of the way up, much to her delight. She giggled as she bounced in my grasp until I set her down at the top.

"Hurry, hurry," I told her.

She ran on down the hall to her room, still giggling.

I started back down the stairs but heard Keef playing in the music room so I decided to stop in and listen. He was working on a simple warmup piece with a single-note melody countered by a low harmony. He found hidden beauty even in that simple exercise. I went into the music room and crossed to the piano, which sat in front of the large bay window overlooking the rear grounds. The early sun shone on the keys from behind him, giving him a glowing aura around the fringe of his hair and his arms as they danced effortlessly through the exercise.

When the other children paired up to play and study, Keef was often left out. Kasimir was the closest to him in age, but the farthest away in interests. Keef and Avery got along very well, but lately Avery was training with Jheffery. I don't think Keef minded that much. His partner was his music.

He smiled good morning to me and began playing his arrangement of an elven song of greeting that Mother had taught him. At eight he was as good as I ever would be.

Then behind us I heard Sera announce, "Breakfast is served, Miss."

I nodded to her and she left.

"I'm going to check on the twins," I told him. "Don't be long."

Darcy wasn't in his room. I found him in Dierdre's room with her looking out her window. He was dressed, but Dierdre was still in her nightgown.

"Dierdre Arrenkyle, I told you to get dressed."

"We're looking at the golems," she said.

"Right now, sister. Move it. Breakfast is on the table."

She still didn't move away from the window so I went to her, turned her around, and said, very calmly, "Get dressed right now, or stay here and miss breakfast and lunch altogether."

She considered the choices but finally decided to get dressed. She ran into her closet while I joined Darcy at the window, putting my arm around him.

"What are we looking at?"

He pointed past the pond to the Alayas trees where Sharbra and the two twelve-foot-tall iron golems were standing with someone on horseback just inside the invisible wall.

The golems were part of the many security precautions that Papa kept around the house. Our grounds were completely surrounded by thick walls of stone twenty feet tall which had been made invisible. All the windows on the first floor were also thick, invisible stone walls.

The Alayas trees, with their hanging vines bearing pink and white flowers and small, sweet fruit, native to the Elf Kingdoms, had been altered by a friend of Papa's to be carnivorous. They lured their prey with sweet fruit and then their vines closed in, wrapping around the intruder and pulling him into the center trunk, which held a chamber where he would be quickly crushed and digested. The entire family and staff always wear a spell, cast upon them by Papa or by me, that causes the trees to ignore us, letting us harvest their fruit or simply walk among them.

The iron golems patrol constantly and are designed to detain any intruders from human to fire dragon that get past the first defenses. Plus, there were wards and spells all around to trap trespassers and alert us of anything unusual. Sharbra, who had served for years in the Pakana Legion and was expert in the ways of thieves and assassins, demons and dragons, lived with us to make sure all the security defenses were kept in top shape.

After a few moments I saw the golems walk away in opposite directions, back to their patrols, as Sharbra led the visitor's horse around the lake toward the house.

"Are you dressed, Dierdre?" I called out toward the closet, anxious to get downstairs to see who was coming. She came out with a dark green summer dress trimmed with brown and gold at the sleeves and hem. I went to her dresser, picked up a brush, and calmed her fine blond hair into a ponytail, which I tied with a yellow ribbon.

"You look very nice, Dierdre. That's a good outfit you selected."

"Thank you," she said quietly.

From the window, Darcy called out, "It's a fighter woman."

"Get your shoes on and then both of you go down to breakfast."

I left them and went down the hall to Kasimir's room, where I found him sitting on the floor at the foot of his bed holding his slingshot and looking bored and sad.

"Time for breakfast," I said.

He got up and started toward the door with a huge frown.

"Leave the slingshot. You can come up and get it after breakfast."

He took a deep breath and let it out angrily as he tossed the slingshot onto the bed.

He turned and stepped heavily out the door. I put my hand on his shoulder and allowed him to get away with his demonstration of frustration, which neither Rebecca nor Mother would have tolerated.

I let him go and stopped at Drake's room. Drake was playing with his mage doll, which was apparently engaged in a dramatic attack against one of his shoes, no doubt playing the part of a dragon or griffon.

"Breakfast, Sweetie," I called out to him.

The mage finished the battle with a powerful explosion that sent the shoe flying into the air with a growl. Drake stood up and made the mage fly through the air to join him on his way for breakfast.

"Make sure he stays off the table," I reminded him.

"I will."

We were halfway down the front stairs when I saw Sharbra and the fighter woman come in the front door.

The light from the high, narrow windows beside the door highlighted her auburn hair when she lifted back her delicately embroidered hood to reveal the square jaw, sharp nose, quiet, patient eyes, and pointed ears of the elven folk. She unfastened the large emerald clasp of her riding cloak, which she removed with an unhurried flourish and handed over to Sharbra. It was a work of art that had no doubt taken thirty years or more to make, but she handled it as if it were a common fabric instead of the sturdy, beautiful elven weave depicting thousands of years of history and honor of her family.

She wore the dark blue and green colors of Mother's family, the Del-Gesius clan. Her blouse was trim and functional, yet elegant, edged with intricate lace and embroidered with spun gold. Above that she wore studded leather armor, casually unfastened, its sides falling open to reveal the lattice of metal fibers that lined the interior.

On her left hip hung a rapier in a silver scabbard that held gold inlays naming the sword in elven characters. At its side was a matching short sword with a blue and green velvet hilt like its larger twin. On her right hung two throwing daggers, a long knife, and a money pouch, no doubt filled mostly with gold pieces and a few platinum. Her trousers were dark forest green but were mostly hidden by the leather leg armor that hung on both sides from a belt and protected the outer thigh, where it was fastened to the knee-high boots.

She was as deadly as she was beautiful.

Her hair was braided and wrapped into a spiral held in place at the back of her head by a thick silver clasp which she removed, letting her long braids fall behind her. She was Mother's only elven daughter, a young five hundred years old and as good a fighter as I knew, except perhaps for Mother herself, even though Mother was more of a marauder and prowler than fighter.

Sharbra said to me, "May I present Sindee Del-Gesius, Miss."

I thanked him as Drake and I descended to the bottom of the stairs, and he left the three of us alone.

I was only ten the last time I had seen Sindee, and she remained as magnificent as I remembered her: petite, elegant, unhurried in even the simplest ways. I saw Mother's beauty in her, but unlike Mother, who had been around humans much of her life, Sindee still spoke with the lilting rhythm of the elven language.

"Is it you, Nyssa?" she asked, reaching her hands out to me.

"It's me," I answered, feeling ten years old again.

"Already a beautiful woman."

She had seen her mother live through almost a dozen human families, but she still seemed surprised at how quickly we grew.

"And Jheffery?" she asked.

"Yes, and eight others. This is Drake. Drake, your half sister, Sindee."

"How do you do, Sindee," he said, bowing to her.

"I am well, thank you. Merishona gooto, Drake-isha," she said, greeting him in her native language.

 "And we're expecting a new child any day," I added.

"Oh, my goodness," she said with genuine surprise before she recovered her aplomb and said, "Yes, Mother said there were would be many other children. You must be very happy."

"And busy. Will you join us for breakfast?"

"I would enjoy that. Ve' eloshati. Thank you."

I turned to lead her to the dining room and saw four curious little faces looking at us from around the corner behind the front stairs.

"Come on out, all of you."

They came forward and politely bowed to the guest, whom none of them had ever met.

I introduced Sindee to her other half brothers and sister by age: Keef, Kasimir, Darcy, and Dierdre. Then I added, "Avery is with Jheffery and Mother. Charles and Evan are probably with Rebecca in the nursery."

At that moment, Mother came around the stairs with Jheffery and Avery.

"Merishona gooto, Sindee-dolo," she said to her daughter, greeting her with the more familiar tense. They exchanged more greetings, but I didn't follow much of it. I spoke what Mother called Dothal, quiet Elvish, spoken by elves in their Shelisl stage, when they spend centuries sitting quietly in their homes doing nothing more complex than tending a garden or singing legend songs. Bashel, or quick Elvish, tended to be used more by elves in Fantl when they wandered away from the Elf Kingdoms seeking adventure or simply a change of scenery. Bashel was much more verbally complex, while Dothal relied more on intonation, expression, and body language. Dothal was like the deep channel of the Elvish language, more formal and archaic, whereas Bashel took on new words for new experiences and was adapted into various dialects.

They spoke for just a minute or two. When humans have been apart for so many years, a reunion is a special occasion. With elves, who live for several thousand years, it's a trivial matter.

Mother introduced Jheffery and Avery to Sindee, and then we all went into the dining hall. Sindee sat at Mother's right, where Jheffery usually sits. Jheffery took the opposite end of the table in Father's seat, next to me.

When everyone was seated and the servants began bringing out the fruit plates and honey bread, Sindee began the next discussion without any further ceremony.

 "In the five years since the gathering began, the human merchants have changed their policy toward us no less than seven times -- perhaps even more when I've been away. It is so much impossible to sustain an agreement with them. Their inability, or perhaps not wanting, to follow through on many promises and agreements has quite damaged the trust between us, even when we take into account their nature."

 "Sindee," Mother began in exactly the same friendly, encouraging tone that had reassured and corrected me in the past. "In times like this, we must remember that the swiftness of the humans is an asset. When a disaster like this strikes, they alter their entire way of life, their whole civilization if necessary, in time for the next crisis while we are still trying to understand the first."

 "This is true, and if we could simply observe them to settle into their new paths, we would gladly stay out of their way and allow them to repair their lands, but we need them and their trade. We are forced to deal with them on their terms and at their pace. We can almost not follow their political fighting that brings one duke after another claiming trading rights, each with his own ideas of proper relations with us."

 "Yes, that is not surprising, after all."

"Can you come back to help us settle the new treaties?"

"Well, Sindee, I'm afraid that I have no influence on these matters. Certainly you should know that. Right now, I'm rearing this family. You know that Estus is studying alternatives himself, and I can assure you that he will offer his support to the elves in any way possible."

As they continued to talk about the politics of crisis management and its lattice of negotiations, I saw in my memory the night that I learned of the beginning of the Barren Years and the way that my very own dear, tender father had helped bring them about.

Papa and I were traveling through the early towns and villages of the Damned Kingdom, helping the new settlers in small ways that for Papa were trivial, but which often provided livelihood to the new pioneers. I was eleven, and at that time Papa was still a magnificent and strange figure to me. When we were alone on the road, he was just Papa, the sweet, loving father who rode beside me telling stories, making me laugh and feel special and warm. But when we entered a village, he seemed to transform into a powerful and wonderful man, the magic man. He would help the settlers find water, mend their buildings, make them a bridge. So many of their needs were simple, and even I could invoke the wands for some of the simpler spells like Mend Fabric or Sharpen Blade.

Very often he would cast a spell of his own design which healed wounds and purged sickness. It had been a handy spell when he was adventuring with Uncle P'Tantis and the others, and for these early settlers it sadly was needed quite frequently.

One evening after we had finished healing and mending and such for a small town, we made camp and started a fire at the edge of the forest.

Papa sat for some time, looking sad. Usually he would have been studying his spells or charging wands for me to use in the next town, but that night he was occupied with some troubling internal dialogue.

I busied myself around our camp, laying out our bedrolls and brushing our horses while he sat leaning against a large tree. Finally I sat beside him and put my head against his arm and asked, "What's wrong, Papa? You look so sad."

He put his arm around me and held me close.

"Nyssa, my sweet, I'm so glad you're with me. You are my new life as I walk among my old. You are the light beyond all this darkness, all this pain."

"What pain, Papa? I don't understand."

"Nor should you."

"I don't like when you're sad, Papa. It makes me feel lonely."

"Lonely?"

"Like you're not here. Like you're somewhere sad and I can't see you."

"I'm here, Nyssa. I'm here now."

"But you're also there, where it's sad."

"Yes," he answered in a whisper.

"Where is it, the place that makes you sad?"

"In the past."

He didn't say anything for a while. Then he pulled me onto his lap and I lay against him with my eyes closed, feeling the vibration of his voice in his chest.

"I wasn't always a master magician working in a laboratory on research and theoretical applications. For many years, I traveled with P'Tantis Jaguar, before he became Duke of the Damned Kingdom. We associated with kings, traveled all over the world, fought beside and against some of the most powerful creatures, and became far wealthier than I ever expected.

"When Karl Pakana died, the new Karl was to be selected by a contest. I don't know if you remember any of that. You were only four years old. Our group was chosen by Amanda, who was just the mayor of Seagate at the time. All the lands of the Pakana Kingdom — Chun, Pash-nie, Hartak, Seagate — selected champions.

"The contest was to find an item of power. After many months of adventure, full of tales told much better by P'Tantis than myself, we recovered Starsheen, one of the twelve swords of Edikee, which empowers its bearer to see into the near future. It's not quite that simple, but that's a fair description.

 "Now, the winner was to be determined by the High Druid, who was expected by everyone to be impartial. However, his interests went beyond our secular battle for control of Pakana. He was aligned with the New Gods and when he selected the victor, it was the interests of his New Gods, rather than Pakana, which he favored.

"So P'Tantis, to avenge Amanda and the Gods the True Order, and for his own personal vengeance, I suppose, decided to assassinate the High Druid. I was not there for the final blow, because I was, well, injured, but I would have fought with P'Tantis to the end and my part was far from insignificant.

"When the Great Druid was killed, something terrible happened which we did not expect. His intimate link with the fabric of the forces of the natural world were severed. The skies grew dark and cold and the world shook and shook and shook. I did not see this myself because I was near death. When Burn brought me back, Amanda had emerged to claim power over the Human Kingdoms, the New Gods had lost their coveted opportunity to increase their power, and the world's natural rhythm was terribly upset. Summers become hotter and winters colder, dry areas like the Damned Kingdom became flooded, fertile lands in the North dried up, and the sun rode a different path. Many rivers changed course, leaving cities landlocked and isolated. Land fit to plow was far away and, while many farmers moved south, many hungry people stayed behind.

"Amanda then granted wishes to those who helped bring her to power. P'Tantis was given the Damned Kingdom to tame, which he did with our help. Others were granted their desires."

"What wish did she grant you, Papa?"

"I was not given the opportunity to make a request."

"Why not?"

I waited for an answer, but he didn't say anything. After a long time, I looked up to him to see if he had fallen asleep or something. He hadn't, so I asked again.

He smiled at me and said very matter-of-factly, "Because I was dead."

I sat up and looked at him with shock. I knew of only one time that his life had been stopped. Soon after Jheffery and I were taken to our new home, Papa traveled with P'Tantis to control a resurgence of the trolls. P'Tantis came to our home and told Mother what happened and she had him take her, Jheffery, and myself to Burn's Temple in Seagate.

Burn was devout and very well practiced in her art. Plus, the Gods favored Papa's group because they had prevented their rivals, the New Gods, from gaining the power they wanted. Still, there was a small chance that it wouldn't work and that he would be gone forever.

I still remember the cold bitterness I felt when I stood with Mother in the dim, torchlit chamber and saw my papa lying still on the cold slab of the altar. Jheffery had no way of understanding what was going on and only knew that Father was very sick. He was kept out of the room so that he would not disrupt the procedure in any way. Mother insisted on being there when Burn performed the ritual of resurrection, and I was afraid to be away from her, so we stood with the rest of the group around the altar.

It was cold, for it was in the middle of winter. I was wearing a fur-lined cloak and hood but still shivered, more from fear and anger than from the cold.

Remembering that day is like remembering a dream for me. When the ritual was finished, Papa jerked suddenly and horribly, tried to sit up, and screamed from the pain of his wounds. Burn immediately began a chant of healing while P'Tantis cast Papa's Thaumatiatric Spell of Healing. I was completely frozen except for the trembling that shook me and choked my breath.

When the chanting and spell casting were done, he called out for me in a whisper. I was feeling so angry thinking he might leave that I didn't go at first. When he looked at me, I was finally able to cry. I ran to him and climbed onto the altar with his help and lay in his weak embrace, crying, "Don't go, Poppy. Don't leave me."

He was telling me that the episode I had witnessed was not the first for him.

"Oh, Papa," I cried.

"Quiet now," he said, stroking my hair with his gentle hand as we sat in the dancing shimmer of our campfire. "I'm all right now. I'm all right and I can try to put some things right."

I reached my hand up to his face and put my hand on his cheek, imagining how horrible and cold and dry it would be if Burn's prayers had not worked.

He took my hand in his, kissed my fingers, and told me again that it would be all right. I fell asleep in his lap, in his embrace, afraid that he would die if I left him for even a second.

He spent years working to put things right. He personally trained and employed magicians to transport goods when necessary, but even they could not keep up. He continued making the rounds of the new towns and villages, helping them gain a foothold against the harsh conditions of the Damned Kingdom.

Eventually, he began selecting young men and women from the towns to study with him so they could continue to supply their community with the spells upon which they had come to depend.

This training and the demand for more magicians to transport goods and to help protect shipments was the beginning of the Damned Kingdom Magic Academy. Adrian, who was my mentor and teacher, was one of the first of these traveling wizards.

Even after three busy years, there were still too few magicians and too many hungry people. This is why Papa was busy developing a magical transporter device that could be operated by non-magicians. The Merchants' and Travelers' Guilds were getting better at adapting to the new trade routes, but much of it was over land and often entire caravans of supplies or food were intercepted by pirates and rogues. The Pakana Legionnaires traveled with some of the merchants when they could, but the pirates were becoming increasingly more bold and powerful. The merchants who bothered to brave the long road South through the mountainous country to trade with the dwarves understandably expected to be paid highly. Few went on through the mountains to Dormelle to trade with the elves.

"Most of those who do come to us," Sindee was saying, "have more than likely stolen the goods from a legitimate merchant. Del-Gesius, like the other families, has harvested nearly all the hanging Geth'el from all our trees. The Jherrel wheat dies as often as not in the arid heat."

"It will pass, Sindee," Mother said with quiet reassurance. "The trees will provide. Stop trying to keep up with their turbulent melee of machinations, daughter. If they're too unreasonable, just steal what they have. Now there I can help."

"I'm afraid it's not quite that simple, Mother."

"Of course it is, Sindee-dolo."

Mother was like that sometimes.
