

Mother's and Sindee's conversation soon drifted to the familiar topics of friends and family, but, of course, much of that world was far away in time, distance, and culture. I had visited Dormelle several times, but even though my visits spanned several years, they were a frozen instant of time in the minds of my mother's family.

One summer I ran into Garmon, one of my countless uncles, and he said, "I've been looking for you. Are you ready for our game of Jenna Net?" as if I had been away only an afternoon instead of more than two years.

It was quite difficult for me to picture Mother living with different families, although I knew that she had been married to more than ten human men. Perhaps it was selfish of me, but I thought of Mother as belonging only to us, and Sindee, of course.

Luckily, Mother didn't let her conversation take breakfast into the evening, or next week, as it might have in Dormelle, and excused us all.

I corralled the troops upstairs to school, except for Kasimir and Drake, who had to serve out their punishment under Avery's guard.

Normally, Jheffery and I took opposite corners. I taught mathematics and grammar while he taught history, drawing, and botany. Father had prepared most of the lessons himself back when he did most of the teaching. Over the years, we have all helped improve the lessons and the books.

Our school was very informal, and all the children spent as much time teaching as they did learning. Keef now did most of the music instruction. Jheffery was perfecting his fighting skills with help from Sharbra and Mother, and Avery was learning from all of them. Drake was beginning to show an interest in magic, so I began showing him how to draw some of the rune letters used in writing spells. Avery was quite helpful keeping Kasimir entertained with word games or algebra while I worked with someone else. Even Kasimir could be a good teacher when it suited him. He was a quite a good storyteller.

With the smaller group, Keef had Jheffery to himself, and I sat down with the twins.

"Yesterday we talked about finding half of a number. Darcy, what is half of six?"

"Three."

"So, half of sixty is what?"

"Thirty."

"And Dierdre, what's half of six hundred?"

"Three hundred."

"Who knows half of forty?"

They both answered, "Twenty."

"Remember you can put them together. What's half of six hundred and forty?"

Darcy answered, "Three hundred twenty?"

 "That's right. Dierdre, what's half of forty-six?"

"Um. Twenty-three?"

"Yes. Now a hard one. Who knows half of fifty-eight? Do them one at a time."

Dierdre was first to answer this time.

"Twenty-nine because fifty is one of those middle ones, between four and six."

"That's right. Half of forty is twenty and half of sixty is thirty, so the number between that is twenty-five. Then half of eight makes twenty-nine."

After a couple more drills, I told them, "Now that you know how to divide a number by two, you also know how to multiply it by five. Just take half of the number and add a zero. Try sixty-four times five."

Drake answered immediately, "Three hundred twenty. Is that right?"

"It sure is. Dierdre, what is six hundred forty-two times five?"

"Hmm. Three hundred twenty-one -- then put a zero -- three thousand, two hundred and ten."

"What's half of three hundred seventy-six?"

I heard them whispering, almost in unison, "one fifty -- one eighty-five -- one eighty-eight."

"Three hundred seventy-six times five?"

"One thousand, eight hundred and eighty!" they both answered excitedly.

"Are we really doing multiplies?" Dierdre asked.

"You really are. You can also multiply by fifty if you want by adding another zero. I want you to take turns thinking of a number between one and one thousand. Say the number, let the other divide it in half, and then multiply it by five yourself. Okay?"

I left them and went over to the window, from where I could see the others by the vegetable garden. Kasimir took aim, shot, and missed the brick.

"How many has he hit?" I called down to Avery.

"Only four so far."

"And he's missed an awful lot," Drake said, as he chased after the errant shot.

"Shut up, Drake," Kasimir retorted angrily.

Avery cautioned him, saying, "Push that anger out of the way, little brother. You can't aim right when you're mad."

Drake brought him the shot. This time, Avery sat behind him and told him something. He took aim and shot, and I saw the brick fall over.

Kasimir turned and yelled up at the window, "Five."

Avery patted him on the back and then went to reset the brick.

Jheffery looked over and asked, "How's he doing?"

I turned away from the window and walked over to their table. "It's going to be a long afternoon. Maybe you could relieve Avery after a while."

"Sure."

I sat at the table next to Keef and said to Jheffery, "Mother asked me to visit Papa and tell him he should come home for a while. Can you look after the twins? When they get tired of math, let them draw or something."

"Will do. Have fun, Nyssa."

"Thanks."

I went back to Dierdre and Darcy, kissed them both on the cheek, and said, "I'll be back in a few hours."

"May I go?"

"May I go, too?"

"No and no. You can see your father this evening."

I left them and went to my room to get ready.

I understood their excitement. It was very rare that any of us got to go anywhere, even to the market on the coast. Our estate, nestled beneath the mountains of Severin's Isle, provided most of what we needed. Now and then Sharbra would take Sera to the wharf to buy supplies or fresh seafood, but we didn't get to go along very often.

I went to the closet and found a long, green skirt with its matching jacket and a white silk blouse and laid them across the bed. I sat down at my dressing table and started brushing out my hair. I always felt that I should look my best when visiting the Academy. If someone recognized me as the daughter of the founding and master regent, I owed it to my father to look my best. However, the fact that the school was always bustling with handsome young novices and students was not lost on me.

I began carefully working my hair into an elven weave, starting from the top with a small handful of hair. I split this into three parts, did the first weave, added a small section of hair from the right strand, and wove the right strand to the center. Then I repeated this on the left side, adding more hair and crossing it to the center. I continued braiding and adding hair until the weave extended down to my neck, where I gathered the rest of my hair together with a wide green ribbon.

Then I changed into the green and white outfit, put on knee- high suede boots, and sat back at the dressing table and donned a conservative amount of lip color and perfume. I fussed a bit more with my hair, tested my smile, and finally felt presentable. I transferred my magic book and supplies to my nice leather pack and tossed it onto my left shoulder.

Next, I went down the hall to Papa's laboratory to get a Transportation wand. I was not far enough advanced to control the structure of the Transport spell directly, so I had to use a wand that held the spell's form and force that could be released after summoning the Magical State. On the wall next to the window was a cabinet filled with dozens of square bins, each holding two or three wands for a particular spell. There were easily sixty or more different spells in wand form. This collection, in supplies and time, would cost a buyer more than two years of average Seagate wages, but this was a tiny collection compared to the one Papa kept at the Academy, which was always being increased by students who helped pay for their training by charging wands. The holdings at the Magicians' Guild in Seagate had a thousand times more than that.

I took out one of the Transportation wands and looked it over. I recognized some symbols that were different than the traditional spell and figured that it was a recent variant that Papa had developed from his research. I put it in my pack and went down the back stairs to the kitchen, where I found Rebecca holding Charles. He was busy fussing and squirming around in her arms trying to get down.

I went over to them, put my hand on his head, and said, "Don't argue with Nanny Beck, brother. What's wrong?"

"I want to go outside," he answered with a severe pout. "With Kas."

Rebecca told me, "I was reading to him and Evan in the solarium when he saw Kasimir out the window. He thinks they're playing games."

I reached out and took Charles from her and stood him on the counter in front of me.

"It doesn't matter what anyone else is doing, Charles Arrenkyle. You know full well what you are supposed to be doing."

He looked up at me and said, with only slightly less pout in his voice, "Pretty hair."

I smiled and looked over to Rebecca.

"You're trying to sweet-talk me, aren't you? It won't work. You cannot go out until later. If you promise to behave, maybe Nanny Beck will read to you on the patio."

He reached his hand out to my cheek and said, "Where are your ear jewels?"

"Oh, my goodness," I exclaimed. "I almost forgot jewelry."

I picked him up from the counter and handed him to Rebecca, saying, "Be good."

I rushed back upstairs and put on a black velvet choker with an emerald pendant and matching earrings, which had emerald stones that dangled on tiny silver chains.

When I returned, Rebecca was on her way back to the solarium.

"Nyssa, remind your father that there has been no name chosen yet."

"I'm sure he'll come back when it's time. He hasn't missed the birth of any of his children yet."

"Have fun, dear. You look stunning."

"Thanks. I will."

I went to the front parlor and waited for Mother to recognize me.

"I'm leaving now. I'll be back soon."

"Be careful, Nyssa."

Sindee turned around and said, "Merishona alvena, Nyssa-dolo."

"Alvena , Sindee-dolena."

I bent down to kiss Sindee on the cheek and then left them and went to the transport platform.

The platform held a special beacon wand that helped close the spell and coordinate any simultaneous arrivals while the locations were pulled together. Transporting without a closure beacon required more energy and could be dangerous because a misalignment would cause the magician to appear high or even in the ground, which is why places that attract magicians usually supply transport platforms with closure beacons. Of course, Papa's beacon could be replaced with a wand that canceled any incoming spells rather than closing them. Someone could still try to transport in unassisted, but they would have to overcome the additional spells, and Papa's familiarity with collocation and related technology made that all but impossible.

Although not necessary, it became customary to exit from the platform as well. Actually, one stood next to it. Standing on the platform itself was strict taboo. If someone were playing around there when a wizard tried to transport in, the spell would not only fail, but the life of the magician would be endangered.

I took out the wand, pictured in my mind the transport platform at the Damned Kingdom Magic Academy, and began quietly chanting the incantation of summoning. As I read the runes to release the spell, the image in my mind became fixed and more vivid. When the stored spell took over, I felt the pleasant giddiness as the power of the spell enveloped me and channeled through my mind. I began to hear distant sounds and feel the warmer air of the Damned Kingdom. The wand brought the vision of my destination from just a picture in my mind to a smoky scene before my eyes as the two locations were strained to unnatural juxtaposition by the forces of the spell that I was releasing. For just a moment, I was standing both in our foyer at Arrenkyle Manor and on the transport platform of the Academy. The spell closed and I quickly stepped aside.

The transport platform of the Damned Kingdom Magic Academy was on the second floor at the center of a circular room some fifteen feet in  diameter and was raised on a stepped dais surrounded by six granite posts set about eight feet apart along the circumference. The walls, except for the entrances on either side, were covered with tapestries of forest green and gold, the Arrenkyle family colors. The posts stood six feet tall and were topped with large crystal spheres. They served to remind casual passersby to stay clear. The platform itself was made from gray basalt stone with an inlay of shiny black obsidian in the shape of the emblem of the Magicians' Guild.

I stepped off of the raised dais and crossed the room on the narrow carpet to the promenade that overlooked the spacious front atrium of the library.

To the right of the wide hallway was a waist-high stone railing with thick, round balusters, little Doric columns mirroring the tall pillars that divided the rail into sections and ascended another twenty feet to the top of the chamber. Each tall pillar was paired with another along the left wall, and between these were the heavy wooden doors to the lecture arena. The tall windows across the atrium let in the early afternoon sun, painting the dark hardwood floor below with a regiment of slanted shadows.

The library was filled with the quiet bustling of students going to classes or studying together. Whenever I visited the Academy, I felt a longing to live here and study with the other students, but I was needed at home as teacher and friend to my father's children. Besides, I had been taught by my father, a genuine master scholar of the Art who taught me style, art, and purpose as well as function and invocation. He preferred that I be taught in the traditional manner of studying one-on-one with a master magician. Later, after I was well past the fundamentals, he sent me to Adrian Blackwing, one of his earliest students, who took over as my master when Papa decided to expand the school and was too busy to coach me himself.

The school grew quickly in those early years. After Papa had traveled around the towns and villages for a couple of years, he had a handful of young men and women who agreed to come with him to learn the Art. Many of the villages had come to rely on Papa's regular visits, and the chance to have their own resident magician encouraged many towns to send a bright young man or woman for training.

Papa's school started in the back of an armory store. The students traveled from all over the Damned Kingdom into Hell's Heart, the largest and capital city of the new territory, and Papa taught them together as a class. It was quite unorthodox to teach magic in groups like this, but the students didn't know that. He taught them to read and copy spells, how to focus their intent, and how to summon and control the Magical State with words and the proper mental image. Very soon they were casting the types of useful spells that were needed back home. They returned home and more students came. Papa taught them as well. From each group, a few would stay to learn more. Soon, he had a group of eight to ten dedicated followers studying the foundations of advanced magic. Adrian, Grayling, Ashenda, Pock, Jenning, and Dorana were all there at the beginning. As soon as was possible, he had them take over the instruction of the novices and he toured the country again finding more students, whom he sent back to Hell's Heart.

In two years' time, he moved from the armory to his own building on the northeast edge of town and his school quickly earned a reputation as the place to get a useful skill that promised security in the uncertain frontier. Papa was also smart enough to realize that not everyone that applied could be trained as a magician. Some who came to the school couldn't even read. So instead of turning them away, he quickly formed a curriculum offering everything from magic to blacksmithing. This would have angered the other guilds if he had tried to do this in an older, more established city. In fact, he did have some complaints at first, particularly from the Carpenters' Guild, which already had quite a presence in the area. Still, the guilds turned down many more applicants than they were able to accept. They weren't designed to handle such volume, but Papa could. He never turned away a student. If students couldn't pay, they were expected to stay after their initial vocational training to help new students or apply their new skills for the school. A student who learned masonry could help build a new room. Even before the young men and women could apply their new skills, they could help out with the numerous chores needed to keep the enterprise functioning. There were always extra hands available for anything from peeling potatoes to planting flowers. The more students that came, Papa realized, the more resources he had to expand the school.

 "Train one," he would say, "and that one can train five others. And they can each train five others." That was as true for weaving or singing or writing as it was for magic.

His new building quickly became four, and soon that wasn't enough. The city was growing, as were so many new towns in the Damned Kingdom. Folks were looking for a new start to help them through the Barren Years.

Papa found a location about thirty miles northeast of Hell's Heart and built what is now the Damned Kingdom Magic Academy.

Once the school was going, Papa was home much of the time. He even spent the whole summer with us in Dormelle when I was fifteen, but then he began building the University, and shortly after that he began organizing a network of his new mages to transport material goods or to ride with Merchants' Guild caravans and he was away again. He tried to visit us weekly, and he did most of the time, but visiting once a week still meant that he was visiting, not really a part of the family.

And then, just last year, the Merchants' Guild began funding his research into advanced device magic, which formed the foundation for his recent research and experimentation with automatic transportation, and which he was no doubt working on at that very minute.

I made my way down the wide stairway, past the many tables filled with busy students, and out to the hot, humid Damned Kingdom afternoon. Thick, low clouds rolled anxiously across the sky, dragging a determined wind along with them.

I followed the brick walkway around the front of the library and then cut through the center grove of willow trees to the nearby Scholars' Quarters. The grove was full of students trying to enjoy the blustery, hot summer day. No one recognized me or even noticed me, as far as I could tell.

The Scholars' Quarters were twenty large houses built for the families of the resident master scholars, but only six were occupied by actual scholars at that time. The rest were rented out to students that could afford to pay the excessive rent that Papa charged. One was reserved for P'Tantis, who used the residence as part hideout, part vacation home.

I passed all of these and went to the grand Founder's Estate, Papa's home away from home. We called it Academy Manor.

The house sits well back from the carriage path behind a tall iron gate, which is always magically locked. Only special wand-keys with the proper counter spell, one of Papa's early experiments in self-directed magic, will open the gate. Only family, Sharbra, and the academy caretaker who tended the grounds and took care of the dogs carried such keys.

I unlocked the gate and followed the brick path around the small rose garden and on up to the house. The dogs greeted me when I got up to the porch, and they each wanted a personal scratch on the head. I assured Winston, Ranger, and Griffon that they were all good dogs, very good dogs, and let them huddle around me for a little while before I went inside.

I looked in Papa's study, but he wasn't there. A quick tour showed me that the house was empty. In the kitchen I saw that the breakfast table had been set for two. He was probably working with a colleague this morning, or perhaps late last night. I considered waiting for him, but since he wasn't expecting me, it was hard to say when he would be back. I decided to try his laboratory back at the library, so I locked up, went out through the front gate, and headed back to the main building. I looked back, in case Papa was working outside for some reason, but there was only a small servant girl tending a flower garden at the side of the house.

I went up to the fifth floor to Papa's laboratory. When I opened the door, the first thing I saw was a large book floating across the room. It approached a bookshelf where it turned itself upright and settled onto the top shelf. On a table, papers were shuffling around, arranging themselves into neat piles. In the sink, cups and mortars were washing themselves, and in the middle of the room, a broom was stirring up a cloud of dust.

"Papa?" I called out, trying to find him among the many tables and bookshelves.

"He's not here," a voice answered.

I turned and saw a young man with a white novice tunic as he stood up from a table at the far end of the room.

"I don't know when he'll be back," the young man said as he continued toward me. "He's meeting with someone from the Merchants' Guild downstairs."

When he got close, he looked me up and down, smiled, and tossed his head to the side, flinging his shoulder-length hair from in front of his face. He extended his hand to me and said, "I'm Tamar Kalidon."

"Greetings," I answered, extending my hand.

"You must be Nyssa Arrenkyle," he said. "You're just like your father described. I can cancel these spells if you like. I'm just straightening up a bit."

"No, that's fine. Leave them. Do you think he'll be back soon?"

"Hard to say. He didn't seem pleased to be interrupted when the gentleman came to talk to him. Your father thinks he may have found the breakthrough in the power retention and he was in the middle of planning some experiments."

"What kind of breakthrough?"

"Well, until now he's been working on determining whether or not a stand-alone transporter device that will do what the Merchants need is even possible as a stable technology. Yesterday we come across a paper on a variation of an Invisibility spell that went back to some of the foundation priciples, but it also held the key for retaining the magic aura on a device with only logarithmic power decay by phasing the third level ergon field, whatever that is. He thinks he can reduce the power drain to almost nothing through some kind of regeneration from an orthogonal stream. He tells me that we're no longer dealing with only a theoretical possibility. Master Arrenkyle says that he knew it all along, but having the proof will help."

"So you know all about his research?"

"Well, in a way. He took me on as an apprentice about six weeks ago, as he probably told you."

"No, he didn't."

"Oh. Well, he needed someone to help him track down references here and at the Guild in Seagate."

"Apprentice?" I asked. "Is he training you as well?"

"Well, sure he is, but mostly he shows me his own techniques and other stuff for the project. He says that explaining it to someone always helps fix it in his own mind. Plus, I pick up on things pretty quick so I can help him read through old manuscripts and notes to look for things."

"You must be looking at pretty advanced material. Most of his research is very obscure and unconventional. I have trouble following all but the basics. Have you been studying Magic long?"

"No, not too long. About a year. I'm still working on the basic reticulation forms. I sort of get things from both ends."

He laughed and shrugged and said, "I hear the words and I think I'm understanding, then, like a fish in a dungeon, I get totally lost. I know a lot of whats about things, because he tells me and I say, ‘Sure, okay,' but I'm really in a cloud about the whys and wheres and just about everything else. You can teach a dog to shake hands, but that don't mean he's gonna pay on the bet. I tell you, when I started, I was amazed that I could summon fire through my hands with just my voice and a piece of dry wood, but that's not hardly half a scale off a dragon's back compared to what can be done."

"You should read the thesis paper of Duroth Yertholian. It may still be a little advanced for you, but you could get most of the content even by skipping over the technical material. It was written over six hundred years ago and is still one of the major foundation works. It suggests that there flatly is no upper bound to magic. The only limit, he wrote, is the life span of humans and their ability, in that time, to gain wisdom and experience."

"Fascinating. I suppose elven wizards can get pretty advanced."

"Oh, goodness yes, but they practice in a different channel of the energies, usually. Humans deal with higher energies that would cause severe problems with an elf over the span of even a few hundred years. That's one of the problems that Yertholian addresses. When elves practice human magic, they can become very, very powerful, but it's very dangerous for them."

"Goodness. There's so much to know."

Then he gestured toward a table and added, "Hey, do you want to sit down? I shouldn't keep you standing here. We could talk and pass the time until your father returns."

"Well, I suppose, but if he's not back soon, I may go looking for him."

"That's fine."

I sat down at the head of a long table covered with books and notes. Tamar sat across the corner to my right.

"I hope I can find him today. I'm supposed to remind him that he hasn't selected a name for his new baby."

"A baby? He's going to be a father again? I didn't know that."

"Yes, this will be his eleventh."

"His, eleventh? Embers aflame, you must have a robust mother! Oh my goodness, that was so rude of me. I didn't mean anything by that."

I had to laugh at the mixture of surprise and embarrassment that came across his face.

"It's okay. Don't worry about it. My mother is quite robust, but not in the way you meant."

"I just had no idea he had such a large family."

"Well, there's Jheffery and me. We were adopted about eleven years ago. Avery is nine -- well, almost ten, actually. Keef is eight and a wonderful musician. Kasimir is seven, and if he's lucky he may one day be eight. Drake will be six in a few weeks. Dierdre and Darcy are the twins, five years old. Charles is four. Evan, two, is the baby, but not for long."

"It must be wonderful having a family like that. I've been on my own one way or another for so long, I don't know how I'd take to all those people around."

"I've always lived with people all around me. I think I'd die if I had to live alone, without the children."

Tamar started to answer, but before he could say anything, Papa came through the door, followed by an elegantly dressed man whom I recognized as Nikolas Mannerah, a Master of the Merchants' Guild.

Tamar turned his attention to his spells and put the broom and dishes to rest.

"I didn't mean to question your integrity or motives," Mannerah was saying. "No one knows better than I the contributions you have made for our members. However, if there is any way that you could deliver the device sooner, you absolutely must find it. It doesn't need to be all polished and fancy. We need whatever you have now. I cannot stress enough the impact this tragedy has had."

"Yes, Mister Mannerah," Papa answered quietly. "I am absolutely aware of the impact that the lost ship has had on your institution. I also know that Empress Amanda holds the Guild responsible for the goods that were lost and for any hardship that their loss may cause. I am also aware that she feels that you have been making promises that are beyond the Guild's ability to uphold and is threatening to direct the Legionnaires to take over transport and sale of all Merchants' Guild stock."

"Yes. That's why you must hurry."

"As I have already told you, this is not brickwork. You cannot add more masons to speed up the job. It takes as long as it takes and I assure you again that you will know the instant that I do when I have a prototype that you can test. Must I remind you that we have not even established with certainty that what we are looking for can even exist? Nevertheless, I shall not rest until I find the answers you need.

"For now, I suggest that you expend your energy dealing with this situation in a useful manner instead of whining to me about the tenuous nature of your standing in the Guild, taking me away from the work I am already doing for you.

"And to be precise, I'm not doing this for you, Mannerah. I'm doing it for all the people it can help. I can do that just as easily if you are removed from office."

"Frankly, Estus, I don't care if you're doing it for the people, the glory, the money, or some harpy's left tit. Just get it done."

"Good day, Mister Mannerah."

"I'll be in touch, wizard. Good day yourself."

After Mannerah left, Papa shook his head and walked past us saying, "Tamar, did you get the supplies together that I needed?"

"I did."

"Papa?" I called to him.

He turned, and suddenly his sullen features fell into the familiar smile that I had missed for so long. He came to me and hugged me warmly.

"It's good to see you, daughter. Is everything well at home?"

It was well hidden, but his casual demeanor was covering some kind of anger. He was too smooth, too still, and his eyes betrayed a gripping tension.

"Yes, Papa, but Mother thinks you need a vacation. Sindee dropped by, and you have not even chosen a name for the baby. Can you possibly get away, even for a day?"

He looked past me for a moment, thinking, and answered, "Of course I'll be there."

I looked again into his troubled eyes and asked, "Papa, are you okay? Is something wrong?"

He chuckled softly and said, "No. Of course not," but then his humor faded.

"Come home, Papa. You need to be home."

"You go. I'll be there later."

"Soon, Papa."

"As soon as I can."
